In the context of <!-- use case/story uc or component co -->
 the whole backerrs (a.k.a. MemsOwn) project,
facing <!-- concern c -->
 a concern whether future contributors and myself will know why some decisions were taken
 and whether they can be modified (see also: Chesterton's fence),

I decided **<!-- option o -->
 to try to be writing Architectural Decision Records**,
and resigned from <!-- options o2 to oN -->
 just taking decisions without any record and trying to keep their rationale only in my memory,

to achieve <!-- quality q -->
 some hope that it will be easier to understand the project for new contributors
 and change the project in major ways in the future,

accepting <!-- downside d --> that some percentage of time and effort of working on the project will need to be spent on writing ADRs,
  and I will need to try and remember to do it,
  and I will be worrying unnecessarily whether I wrote enough ADRs.

## Extra notes

The suggested template for ADRs is based on [[1]](https://medium.com/olzzio/y-statements-10eb07b5a177)
and [[2]](https://icepanel.medium.com/architecture-decision-records-adrs-5c66888d8723)
with some small modifications:

    In the context of <!-- use case/story uc or component co -->,
    facing <!-- concern c -->,  
    
    we decided for **<!-- option o -->**,
    and resigned from <!-- options o2 to oN -->,

    to achieve <!-- quality q -->,  
    
    accepting <!-- downside d -->.

    ## Extra notes

- I kept "component co" which was not prominent in some of the links, as otherwise "use case/story uc" is currently unclear and confusing to me;
- I formatted the template in a way that feels like it might make it a bit easier to read.
  Notably, I first tried adding italics to every "prompt", and a line break after every line, but that seemed to make it *harder* to read to me.
  The more free-flowing variant feels easier *for me* to read.
- I didn't like or understand the "neglected" phrasing and for now thought "resigned from" is clearer to me;
- I chose the "short form" ADR as it feels easiest and least tiresome to write, and maybe also (hopefully) to read.
  And for ADRs I believe it's crucial first of all that there's as little as possible friction for potential authors to write them.
- The "decisions.doc" directory name is partly suggested by https://adr.github.io/ website (the "decisions" part),
  partly by my desire to not add too deep directory structure for now (thus "*.doc" instead of "docs/decisions/").

There's more info about ADRs at: https://adr.github.io/, but it seems surprisingly bloated and hard to navigate for me.

I felt a push to do after reading [a discussion thread](https://lobste.rs/s/pcmwh1/more_software_projects_need_defenses)
on [an article by Hillel Wayne titled "More Software Projects need Defenses of Design](
https://buttondown.email/hillelwayne/archive/more-software-projects-need-defenses-of-design/).
